CPEN214	Digial Logic Design	3	Introduction to logic circuits; combinatorial logic circuits; memory elements; sequential logic circuits; register transfer logic. Hands-on experience with devices emphasized.	ENGR121,PHYS152,PHYS202	ENGR121,PHYS152,PHYS202	""
CPEN315	Digital System Design	3	Digital design methodology and techniques; control and timing; machine organization, instruction sequencing and data for flow control; control unit design; and techniques.	CPEN214	CPEN315L	CPEN,EE,PHYS
CPEN315L	Digital System Design Lab	1	Advanced sequential circuit design and implementation,design with programmable logic, digital circuit simulation.The use of modern Electronic Design Automation (EDA) tools is emphasized. Lab fees apply each term.	""	CPEN315	""
CPEN371W	Computer Ethics	2	This course covers contemporary ethical issues in science and engineering. A framework for professional activity is developed, which involves considerations and decisions of social impact. Current examples will be studied, discussed, and reported: IEEE and ACM codes of ethics, software and hardware property law, privacy, social implications of computers, responsibility and liabilities, and computer crime.	ENGL223	""	""
CPEN414	Computer Architecture	3	The basic issues and techniques in computer architecture and design. Survey of architectures; instruction set design; software influences on architecture; processor implementation and simulation; pipelining; memory and I/O subsystems; special purpose architectures.	CPEN315	""	""
CPEN422	Microprocessors	3	In depth study of current microprocessor issues; interfacing and data communications; buses and memory/peripheral connections; parallel interfaces; serial interfaces; analog interfaces. Applications by means of the case study method.	CPSC256,CPSC327,CPEN214	""	""
CPEN431	Computer Engineering Design	3	The engineering design course focuses on applications of computer engineering. Engineering skills developed through supervised design projects. Design projects incorporate techniques and concepts developed in previous courses. Topics include field programmable gate arrays (FPGA) implementation, micro-programmable controllers, device interfacing, design for test and design for manufacturing techniques. Development systems and Electronic Design Automation software are used throughout the course. May be taken as research intensive.	CPEN315,CPEN315L	CPSC270	""
CPEN495	Special Topics	3	Topics vary, determined by the special interests and needs of students and the expertise of faculty	""	""	""
CPEN498	Computer Engineering Capstone	3	Capstone design project where senior student completes a practical computer engineering project, including probabilistic aspects of the design, by applying the engineering knowledge and judgment they have acquired during their college career. A formal oral presentation and a written report are required as well the artifact that is the design. This course is repeatable twice for a total of three credit hours.	ENGL223	CPEN371W	Senior