CPSC110	Introduction to Computing	3	Designed for students majoring in other than the computer sciences. Introduction to computers, their capabilities, limitations, and implications. Applications such as spreadsheets, presentation, multimedia, and webpage development. Computer terminology, hardware and software organization. Satisfies the logical reasoning foundation requirement.	""	""	""
CPSC125	Foundation of Computer Science	3	The function and architecture of computer hardware. Data and instruction representation. Networks, operating systems and their functions. Algorithms, programming languages, and software engineering. Artificial intelligence, theory of computation, and applications. This course includes a hands-on component.	""	""	""
CPSC130L	Beginning Programming Lab	1	Laboratory course for students who do not pass the CPSC 150 readiness exam. This course teaches beginning programming using hands-on activities in a specific programming language. Laboratory exercises emphasize basic programming structures such as loops and conditional statements.	""	""	""
CPSC140	Introduction to Computer Programming with Multimedia	3	This course is an introduction to computer programming via multimedia using a simple yet powerful language. Topics include programming language concepts, data types & operations, expressions, symbolic logic, conditionals, loops, functions, and basic data structures. Assignments will be multimedia-oriented, such as a simple photo shoplike application, an animation generator, and a simplified iTunes-like application.	""	""	""
CPSC150	Introduction to Programming	3	This course is an introduction to problem solving and programming. Topics include using primitive and object types, defining Boolean and arithmetic expressions, using selection and iterative statements, defining and using methods, defining classes, creating objects and manipulating arrays. Emphasis is placed on designing, coding and testing programs using the above topics. Satisfies the logical reasoning foundation requirement.	""	""	""
CPSC150L	Introduction to Programming Lab	1	Laboratory course supports the concepts in CPSC 150 lecture with hands-on programming activities and language specific implementation. Laboratory exercises stress sound design principles, programming style, documentation, and debugging techniques. Lab fees apply each term.	CPSC150L	CPSC150L	""
CPSC215	Software Packages for Business Applications	3	For students majoring in business or information science and those wanting a more in-depth understanding of and competence in the use of spreadsheets, databases and database management. Covers creation of complex spreadsheets using Microsoft Excel, and database queries and management using Microsoft Access.	MATH135,MATH140,MATH148	MATH135,MATH140,MATH148	""
CPSC216	Multimedia and Web Publishing	3	Basic multimedia concepts – graphics, audio, video; internet concepts; design, development, and publishing of web pages; interactive web pages; publishing tools, server management and tools. This course includes a hands-on component.	CPSC150;CPSC150	""	""
CPSC250	Programming for Data Manipulation	3	This course builds upon concepts taught in CPSC 150, and provides continuing study of data storage and manipulation, and introduces their application to scientific computing and visualization. Specific topics include object oriented design, programming style, debugging, and algorithm design. The course will incorporate the use of existing libraries for data processing and visualization	CPSC150;CPSC159L	""	""
CPSC250L	Programming for Data Manipulation Lab	1	Laboratory course supports the concepts in CPSC 250 lecture with hands-on programming activities and language specific implementation. Laboratory exercises stress sound design principles, programming style, documentation, and debugging techniques. Lab fees apply each term.	CPSC150;CPSC150L	CPSC250	""
CPSC255	Programming for Applications	3	This course provides a study of programming and problem solving using a scalable structured programming language. The course assumes competency with programming and problem solving using variables, conditional statements, loops, classes (objects) and arrays. The course begins with a brief introduction to these prior programming concepts, before moving on to more advanced concepts such as class inheritance and interfaces, generics, and beginning data structures such as linked lists, stacks, and queues. The course includes more advanced programming techniques such as exceptions, recursion, networking, and data structures.	CPSC150;CPSC150L	""	""
CPSC256	C/C++ Programming for Engineers and Scientists	3	This course explores problem-solving techniques for problems primarily from fields of engineering and sciences to include procedural and object-oriented program development, editing, compiling, linking, and debugging using C/C++ programming language. Applications in hardware-oriented programming, embedded environment, and computer simulation are also studied.	CPSC250	""	""
CPSC270	Data and File Structures	3	Study of objects and data structures. Trees, graphs, heaps with performance analysis or related algorithms. Structure, search, sort/merge and retrieval of external files. Programming assignments will involve application of the topics covered.	CPSC255	ENGR213	""	""
CPSC280	Introduction to Software Engineering	3	This course introduces the theory and practice of building reliable software systems. It covers the life-cycle of software development and its existing models, methods for modeling, designing, testing and debugging software, and techniques to choose appropriate models to build systems involving individuals or teams of developers.	CPSC255	""	""
CPSC327 C++ Programming	3	Designed for students who already know how to program, but do not know C++. This is a comprehensive introduction to C++. The course will emphasize basic C++, in particular memory management, inheritance, and features needed for low level programming.	CPSC255;CPEN314	""	""
CPSC330 Computer Organization	3	Study of computer organization and architecture. Examine functional organization of a von Neumann computer including computer micro-operations, control organizations, basic instruction sets, addressing modes, CPU design, memory organization, and Input-Output organization. More advanced topics including vector processing and multiprocessors will also be introduced.	CPSC250;CPSC250L;CPEN214	""	""
CPSC335 Data Communication Systems	3	A broad overview of communications issues to include encoding, media, interfaces, error detection and correction, data compression, protocols, the OSI model, and LANs. Standard network applications such as ftp, telnet, and web browsers are discussed. Students will be required to design and implement a communications software project.	CPSC250;CPSC250L	""	""
CPSC336	Network Implementation and Administration	3	Study of TCP/IP based networks for a UNIX environment and the integration of different types of virtualization and cloud solutions with various operating systems. Routing, domain name servers, and sockets are included in network configuration. Once networks are set up, they are configured to serve a purpose through the implementation and administration of information servers such as web and database servers with consideration for functionality and security.	CPSC250	""	CYBR
CPSC350	Information Systems Analysis	3	Introduction to information systems profession. Tools and techniques for profiling organizations and analyzing their goals and needs to determine and specify information systems requirements. Practical experience in real-life information systems analysis.	CPSC150;CPSC150L	""	""
CPSC351 Information Systems Design and Implementation	3	Lecture/project-based course for systematic design, implementation, and maintenance of information systems. Based on given requirements for an information system, the course guides students in methods, tools, and techniques for realizing the desired system.	CPSC250;CPSC250L;CPSC250	""	""
CPSC360 Programming Language Concepts	3	Basic concepts dealing with information binding, arithmetic, string handling, data structures, storage and mapping, input/ output, and execution environment. Specialized concepts concerning recursion, multiprocessing, list processing, and language extensibility. Several programming languages will be examined.	CPSC255	""	""
CPSC410 Operating Systems	3	Introduction to operating systems, I/O processing, interrupt structure and multiprocessing-multiprogramming, job management, resource management, batch and interactive processing, deadlock problem, computer net-working through teleprocessing and system performance evaluation.	CPSC327;CPEN214	""	""
CPSC420	Algorithms	3	The application of analysis and design techniques to numerical and non-numerical algorithms which act on data structures. Examples will be taken from areas such as combinatorics, numerical analysis, systems programming, and artificial intelligence.	CPSC270	""	""
CPSC425	Object Oriented Programming and Design	3	Basic object-oriented design and applications of an object oriented programming language. Introduces object-oriented design methods and provides guidance in the effective implementation of object oriented programs.	CPSC280	""	""
CPSC428	Network Security and Cryptography	3	Study of encryption algorithms and network security practices. Security issues, threats and attacks. Symmetric ciphers (“secret-key encryption”): classical and contemporary algorithms, standards and applications. Public-key encryption: theoretical background, practical implementations, keymanagement, hash algorithms. Network security practices: authentication, IP security, electronic mail and web security. System security.	CPSC250;MATH125,MATH140,MATH148;ENGL223	""	""
CPSC429	Computer and System Security	3	Study of computer and system security practices, policies and principles. Designed as a counterpart to CPSC 428, this course will focus on topics such as account and access control, password security, and database security. Additionally, topics such as buffer overflows, vulnerabilities, secure coding practices, secure configuration, auditing and logging will be covered.	CPSC250	""	""
CPSC430 Simulation Modeling	3	Examines the quantitative analysis of management problems. This course is the information science equivalent of engineering courses in operations research. Emphasis on essence of systems modeling and simulation, prospects for obtaining computer solutions, and extracting the most value out of the system’s model and its computer solution rather than mathematics of quantitative analysis.	MATH125;MATH135,MATH140,MATH148;MATH235,MATH260;CPSC250;CPSC250L
CPSC440 Database Management Systems	3	Database (DB) concepts. Relational, hierarchical and network models. Query languages, data sub-languages and schema representations. The DB environment: DB administration, security, dictionaries, integrity, backup and recovery. May be taken as research intensive.	CPSC250;CPSC250L	""	""
CPSC441	Big Data Technologies	3	This course covers facets of cloud computing and big data management, including the study of the architecture of the cloud computing model with respect to virtualization, multitenacy, privacy, security, cloud data management and indexing, scheming and cost analysis; it also includes relevant programming models, crowd sourcing, and data provenance.	MATH235,MATH260;CPSC335;CPSC440	""	""
CPSC445W	Information Systems Labratory	3	A major project that includes a study of the factors necessary for successful implementation and operation of information systems; the traditional life cycle approach to managing and controlling application development and alternative development approaches. Written and oral presentation of project.	ENGL223;CPSC350	CPSC440	""
CPSC450	Operating Systems II	3	A continuation of CPSC 410 with emphasis on the area of intra-system communications.	CPSC410	""	""
CPSC460	Introduction to Compilers	3	A study of the problems of translating procedure oriented languages; lexicographic analysis, syntax checking, code generation and optimization, error detection and diagnostics.	CPSC360	""	""
CPSC470	Theoretical Computer Science	3	Presentation of basic results relating to formal models of computation. Emphasis is placed on developing skills in understanding rigorous definitions in computing and in determining their logical consequences.	CPSC270;CPSC360;MATH240	""	""
CPSC472	Introduction to Robotics	3	This course presents an overview of applied robotics. The course will cover introductions to configuration space representations, rigid body transforms in 2D and 3D, robot kinematics, basic control theory, motion planning, perception, and machine decision making. Perception topics include basic computer vision and laser rangefinder (LIDAR)-based obstacle detection and mapping. The course includes hands on development and system integration using various robotic platforms. Programming will be done in Ubuntu Linux in a mixture of C++ and Python; no prior experience is required, but students will be expected to self-teach the specifics necessary to complete the projects.	CPSC327,CPSC360;MATH235,MATH260,ENGR210,PHYS340	""	""
CPSC471	Applied Artifical Intelligence	3	This course is an introduction to the mathematical and computational foundations of artificial intelligence. Its emphasis is on those elements of artificial intelligence that are most useful for practical applications. Topics include heuristic search, problem solving, game playing, knowledge representation, logical inference, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, expert systems, machine learning, and language understanding. Programming assignments are required.	CPSC255,CPSC327;MATH235,MATH260,ENGR210,PHYS340	""	""
CPSC475	Android Mobile Computing	3	This course covers core concepts of the Android programming platform and its key components using the Android SDK and the Java programming language. Topics discussed include application lifecycle, user interface design, activities and intents, data persistence, networking, messaging, location-based applications, and android services.	CPSC255	""	""
CPSC480	Software Design and Implementation	3	Presentation of a formal approach to state-of-the-art techniques in software design and development. Application of such techniques in a team environment.	CPSC280	""	""
CPSC485	Principles and Applications of Multimedia	3	The purpose of this course is to learn the principles and techniques of multimedia focusing on digital images and audio. Technical topics include: the nature of sound and images and their digital representation; the different media types and formats; capture, editing, and publication techniques; workflow automation and programming; multimedia relevant web protocols. The course will also address copyright issues, graphic design, and human interface principles. A semester project is required.	CPSC250	""	""
CPSC495	Special Topics	3	Topics vary, determined by the special interests and needs of students and the expertise of faculty.	""	""	""
CPSC498	Capstone Project in Computer Science	3	Directed projects or research under the supervision of a faculty member.	CPSC270	""	Senior