EENG221	Signals and Systems	3	This course covers the fundamental concepts of continuoustime and discrete-time signals (singularity functions, complex exponentials, Fourier representations, Laplace and Z transforms, sampling) and representations of linear, time invariant systems (difference and differential equations, block diagrams, system functions, poles and zeros, convolution, impulse and step responses, frequency responses).	ENGR210;MATH320	""	""
EENG311	Electric Circuits II	3	This course covers advanced concepts of electric circuits including sinusoidal steady state response, sinusoidal steady-state power, three-phase circuits, Laplace and Fourier transforms, frequency selective circuits and active filters.	EENG211	ENG311L	""
EENG311L	Electric Circuits II Lab	1	Laboratory experiences to accompany the lecture part of this course. The laboratory activities emphasize design and analysis principles taught in the lecture. Lab experiments include characterizing and testing Sinusoidal steady state response of RLC circuits, Sinusoidal steady state power, three-phase circuits, frequency selective circuits and active filters.	EENG311	EENG311	""
EENG321	Control Systems	3	This course deals with the fundamental principles for analysis and design of control systems. Topics include dynamic modeling, dynamic response, basic properties of feedback, root-locus design method, frequency-response design method, and state-space design.	EENG221	""	""
EENG321L	Control System Labatory	1	Laboratory experiences to accompany the lecture part of this course. The laboratory activities stress fundamental principles of the lecture course. These include the modeling of dynamic systems, various design techniques of feedback controller, and implementation of control systems. Lab fees apply each term.	EENG321	EENG321	""
EENG361	Communication Systems I	3	This course covers topics in digital and analog communications, including modulation techniques, noise considerations, performance aspects, and selected applications.	EENG221	""	""
EENG361L	Communication Systems Laboratory	1	Laboratory experiences to accompany the lecture part of this course. The laboratory activities stress fundamental principles of the lecture course including frequency response of systems, filtering, and various modulation techniques. Lab fees apply each term.	EENG361	EENG361L	""
EENG421	Industrial Control and Data Acquisition	3	Elements of industrial control systems: sensors, actuators, and controllers. This course will emphasize PID controllers and industrial process control, including PLC. Introduction of data acquisition systems, A/D and D/A conversion, sampling theory; case study on data acquisition systems will be studied as well as tools and methods used for realization, analysis and assessment of industrial control and data acquisition systems.	EENG321	""	""
EENG461	Communication Systems II	3	This course covers the fundamentals of wire and wireless communication systems, including data compression, error correction, modulation techniques, and channel access.	EENG361	""	""
EENG481	Digital Signal Processing	3	This course presents time and frequency domain analysis, difference equations, z-transform, FIR and IIR digital filter design, discrete Fourier transform, FFT, and random sequences.	EENGTH221;MATH320	""	""
EENG495	Special Topics	3	Topics vary, determined by the special interests and needs of students and the expertise of faculty.	""	""	""
EENG498W	Electrical Engineering Capstone Project	3	Capstone design project in which a senior student completes a practical electrical engineering project, including probabilistic aspects of the design, by applying the engineering knowledge and judgment they have acquired during their college career. A formal oral presentation and a written report are required as well the artifact that is the design.	ENGL223	CPEN371W	Senior