PHYS105L	Elementary Physics Laboratory	1	Physics laboratory experiences to accompany PHYS 141, 142, 143, 144. For non-science students. The laboratories introduce fundamental physics principles and the application of these principals to society. Lab fees apply each term	PHYS141,PHYS142,PHYS143,PHYS144	""	""
PHYS141	How Things Work	3	Designed for non-science majors. Physical concepts including mechanics, heat, sound, electromagnetism and nuclear physics are studied in the context of everyday phenomena. Investigation begins with whole objects and looks inside them to see what makes them work. Because it concentrates on concepts rather than math, and on familiar objects rather than abstract constructs, this course offers students with many different learning styles substantial insights into our modern world.	""	""	""
PHYS142	Energy: Principles, Problems and Societal Impact	3	Designed for non-science majors. Topics include energy principles, mechanical energy, electromagnetic energy, thermodynamic energy, nuclear energy, solar energy and other energy systems. Energy conservation, environmental issues and societal impact issues will be discussed.	""	""	""
PHYS143	Physics Unveiled: The Magic and The Mystery	3	Designed for non-science majors. This course provides an introduction to the revolutionary developments in our understanding of the magical mysteries of the physical world that evolved during the 20th century. It is intended for non-science majors and provides a background for other courses in physics and astronomy. Basic physical concepts in mechanics, electromagnetism and quantum physics will be applied to investigations of topics such as flight, space travel, medicine, communication and industry. Course topics will cover both the macroscopic world and microscopic phenomena. The course will focus on concept development with simple problem solving.	""	""	""
PHYS144	Introduction to Astronomy	3	Designed for non-science majors. This course provides an introduction to, and survey of modern astronomy. The course will cover the observation, natural history and physical theories governing star and planet formation and evolution, galaxy formation, galactic structures and the beginning, evolution and end of the universe as a whole. The approach will be primarily descriptive although some computation and computer work will be necessary. This course provides the background for more advanced courses in astronomy and astrophysics.	""	""	""
PHYS151	College Physics I	3	A presentation of the major concepts of physics, using algebra and trigonometry. For science students (but not for engineering, physics, or mathematics students). Topics covered include mechanics, thermodynamics, waves, electromagnetism, optics, and modern physics.	""	""	""
PHYS152	College Physics II	3	A presentation of the major concepts of physics, using algebra and trigonometry. For science students (but not for engineering, physics, or mathematics students). Topics covered include mechanics, thermodynamics, waves, electromagnetism, optics, and modern physics.	PHYS151	""	""
PHYS151L	College Physics Labratory I	1	Physics laboratory activities to accompany the lecture part of the course. The laboratories introduce fundamental physical principles, rudimentary data analysis, and computer-aided control and data acquisition. Lab fees apply each term.	PHYS151	PHYS151	""
PHYS152L	College Physics Labratory II	1	Physics laboratory activities to accompany the lecture part of the course. The laboratories introduce fundamental physical principles, rudimentary data analysis, and computer-aided control and data acquisition. Lab fees apply each term.	PHYS152	PHYS152	""
PHYS201	University Physics	3	3	This is a first semester, calculus-based introductory physics course. Basic principles of mechanics are developed. Topics include units, measurement, vectors, displacement, velocity, acceleration, force, equilibrium, mass, Newton’s laws, work, energy and momentum.	MATH140,MATH148	MATH140,148	""
PHYS201L	University Physics I Laboratory	1	The first semester of physics laboratory experiences to accompany the lecture part of the course. The laboratory introduces experimental techniques, data analysis and data analysis tools, and technical report writing utilizing the fundamental physical principles introduced in the lecture portion of the course. Computer use is integrated throughout the laboratory exercise. Lab fees apply each term.	PHYS201	PHYS201	""
PHYS202	University Physics II	3	This is a second semester, calculus-based introductory physics course. The course covers electricity, including electrostatics and electric fields, Gauss’s law, electric potential, capacitors, dielectrics, current, resistance, DC circuits, magnetic fields, inductance and AC currents.	""	""	""
PHYS202L	University Physics II Laboratory	1	The second semester of physics laboratory experiences to accompany the lecture part of the course. The laboratory introduces fundamental physical principles, data analysis skills, and data analysis tools. Computer use is integrated throughout the laboratory exercise. Lab fees apply each term.	PHYS202	PHYS202	""
PHYS301	Intermediate Classical Mechanics	3	This is the first semester of a two semester sequence in classical mechanics. This course will lay the foundation for PHYS 401. The topics for this course include: conservative force analysis, motion under linear and quadratic friction, rocket motion, driven-damped harmonic motion, normal modes, motion in non-inertial reference frames, and analysis of rigid body rotation.	PHYS201;MATH250	MATH320	""
PHYS303	University Physics III	3	This is a one semester introduction to waves, thermodynamics and optics. Topics include oscillations, mechanical waves, sound, the Doppler effect, superpostion, standing waves, temperature, heat, equations of state, thermodynamic processes, heat engines, refrigerators, first and second laws of thermodynamics, entropy and geometric optics.	PHYS202	MATH250	""
PHYS304	Electrostatics	3	This is the first semester of a two semester sequence in electricity and magnetism. This course will lay the foundation for PHYS 404. The topics for this course include Gauss’s law, Coulomb’s law, Laplace’s equation, Poisson’s equation, electric fields in matter, magnetostatics and magnetic fields in matter.	PHYS202	MATH320	""
PHYS338	Apprenticeship in Teaching Physics	3	The student will work directly with a faculty member from the department in designing laboratory experiments and demonstrations, teaching parts of laboratories and giving demonstrations in classes. Special emphasis will be given to the use of learning technologies, including computers and multimedia in the classroom.	MATH320	MATH320	""
PHYS340	Methods of Theoretical Physics	3	Survey of the theoretical methods used for analyzing and predicting physical phenomena. Topics include linear systems of equations, matrices, vectors, complex variables, and linear transforms. Computers will be used to implement these methods for a variety of physical systems.	MATH240;PHYS303	PHYS202;PHYS202L	""
PHYS341	Design and Analysis of Experiments	3	An introduction to the field of experimental design, with particular reference to the use of advanced statistical techniques for experimental analysis. Topics include propagation of experimental uncertainties, distributions about the mean, estimating means and errors, statistical inference, analysis of variance, single factor experiments, block designs and Latin squares, factorial experiments, and nested experiments.	PHYS151;PHYS152,PHYS202;PHYS202L;MATH140,MATH148	""	""
PHYS344	Introduction to Astrophysics	3	This is a one-semester introduction to the field of astrophysics. It focuses on the application of calculus-based math to study modern astrophysics. Topics include celestial mechanics, space weather, the nature of life-cycle of stars and the solar system.	PHYS202;MATH240	""	""
PHYS351	Modern Physics	3	This course provides an introduction to quantum mechanics and its application to contemporary measurement systems.	PHYS303	""	""
PHYS401	Advanced Topics In Mechanics	3	This is the second semester of a two semester sequence in classical mechanics. It builds upon a foundation of mechanics studies in PHYS 301. The topics for this course include scattering theory, the calculus of variations, Lagrangian mechanics, Hamiltonian mechanics, chaos theory, continuum mechanics, and special relativity with tensors.	PHYS301;PHYS340;MATH250;MATH320	""	""
PHYS402	Quantum Physics	3	Study of the quantum mechanics of simple physical systems. Topics include the wave function, Schroedinger’s equation, one-dimensional systems, the harmonic oscillator, angular momentum, the hydrogen atom, approximation methods, scattering, and electromagnetic radiation.	PHYS301;PHYS351;MATH250;MATH320;MATH260,PHYS340	""	""
PHYS404	Electrodynamics	3	This is the second semester of a two semester sequence in electricity and magnetism. It builds upon a foundation of electrostatics studied in PHYS 304. The topics for this course include electromotive force, Faraday’s law, Maxwell’s equations, conservation laws, electromagnetic waves, potentials and fields, radiation and relativity.	PHYS304;MATH250;MATH320	""	Spring, odd-numbered years
PHYS406	Therodynamics	3	An in-depth review of classical thermodynamics as introduced in PHYS 303 (temperature; ideal gas law; zeroth, first, and second laws, heat capacity; phase changes, heat transport; thermodynamic processes; heat engines and refrigerators; reversibility, irreversibility and entropy) and an introduction to statistical physics (microstates and macrostates), the multiplicity function, the Boltzmann and Gibbs factors, the partition function, thermodynamic potentials, the cononical and grand cononical ensembles Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein gases, Debye Theory	MATH320;PHYS351	""	""
PHYS421	System Design Lab (Data Acquisition)	3	The investigation of advanced physics in an experimental laboratory. Design of experiments. The study of experimental techniques and methodologies with a focus on optimization and efficiency. The use computers as data acquisition systems. Development of data acquisition and analysis software.	ENGR211;ENGR211L;CPEN214;CPSC250;CPSC250L	""	""
PHYS431	Optic Physics	3	A continuation of the fundamentals studied in PHYS 303. Topics include electromagnetic waves in media, polarization, radiometry and photometry, the Fresnel equations, dispersion, matrix methods in geometrical optics, H-planes, interferometry, and diffraction.	PHYS303;PHYS304;PHYS340	""	Fall, odd-numbered years
PHYS441	Modeling and Simulation	3	The modeling and simulation of physical systems. Applying software methodologies to the solution of physical problems. Lectures will typically involve a short review of some physics topic such as Keplerian motion, followed by an extensive discussion on the modeling and simulation of the problem.	CPSC250;CPSC250L;PHYS340;MATH320;MATH380	""	Spring, odd-numbered years
PHYS495	Special Topics	3	Topics vary, determined by the special interests and needs of students and the expertise of faculty.	""	""	""
